The yays are 218. The naysay are 214. The motion is adopted.
A huge victory for the president. The House gives final approval to his massive spending and tax cut bill.
[Applause] From CBS News headquarters in New York,
this is the CBS Evening News. Good evening. I'm John Dickerson.
Maurice Dubois is off. President Trump will have more to celebrate tomorrow
than America's birthday. He will sign the signature piece of domestic legislation of his second term, a
massive spending package that will extend the tax cuts of his first term, but make big cuts in social programs to
help pay for them. Congress passed the bill barely and despite opposition and threats from the president's sometimes
friend and adviser, sometimes not, Elon Musk. Musk said the package adds to the
deficit. It took a tie-breaking vote by the vice president to get it through the Senate. Today, it passed the House 218
to 214 as two Republicans joined all the Democrats in voting no. Nicole Killian
is in Washington, but we begin with Caitlyn Huey Burns in De Moine where the president is holding a rally and
claiming the bill will make the economy take off like a rocket ship.
John, President Trump will begin selling that bill here in Iowa tonight. And as the House was going through that
marathon voting session, we found people here in Iowa watching it very closely,
too, anxious to know what it might mean for them. As the bill passed in Washington, the
motion is adopted. Ben Smith in Iowa, owner of Smitty's
Tenderloin, breathed a sigh of relief. The restaurant has been in Smith's family for generations. He says the
bill's provision eliminating federal taxes on tips could help his industry. What does that mean for you as a
restaurant owner, no tax on tips for your employees? I look at it as a good opportunity to just to see our employees
see the fruits of their labor and the hard work. Deanna Mutler has been working at Smitties for nearly four
decades. We don't expect a tip. Well, I don't, you know, but it is it will
benefit our future waitresses a lot. The 900page bill also eliminates federal
taxes on overtime pay, extends Trump's 2017 tax cuts, provides increased
spending on border security and defense, and gives businesses tax deductions for
new equipment. But the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates the bill will add $3 trillion to the
deficit. To pay for it, lawmakers made deep cuts to some social programs,
including nearly a trillion dollars from Medicaid, which could leave nearly 12 million uninsured. Something that
worries customer Janie Nagel, who says her cousin relies on the program. I'm
concerned about her not having the medical care that she needs, that there are so many people. How do we know uh
who gets cut? And I I feel really I I feel bad that they're taking that away.
The legislation also impacts the renewable energy industry and the electric vehicle market. Here's my
colleague Nicole Kian with that. Rob Smith has been in the car business for more than 35 years. He manages
dealerships in Florida, Pennsylvania, and Maryland, where electric vehicles have become a growing part of his
business. How many electric vehicles do you have on this lot? On this particular lot, we've got around 110 right at the
moment. But he's considering scaling back on his inventory. That's because come September 30th, consumer tax breaks
on electric vehicles are expected to end under the newly passed Republican mega bill. That includes credits of up to
$7,500 towards the purchase of new vehicles and $4,000 for those that are
used. The incentives help boost sales. Business is very good in the electric
vehicle market. Yes. Are you concerned that that could change if this EV tax
credit is rolled back? Absolutely. People need to know how much things are
going to cost and they want predictability for their planning for their family budget. The issue drove a wedge between President Trump and
Tesla's Elon Musk. Eli's very upset that the EV mandate is going to be
terminated. But the legislation makes good on the president's campaign pledge to roll back the Biden era credit and
other clean energy provisions like wind and solar credits passed under the inflation reduction act. You know, we're
in a battle for the future of what we like to call the clean economy. Nick Nigro with Atlas Public Policy says the
move to end the credit and other renewable energy subsidies could be a blow to US automakers already struggling
to catch up to China. 50% of all new vehicles purchased in China are electric vehicles. They dominate the solar
industry. The US was really trying to play catch-up in the last few years. But with this enactment of this law, we
introduce even more uncertainty in what the future of the clean economy looks like for the US and therefore manufacturing industry and lots of lots
of jobs. Nicole, the president's sales job on this will start when he signs it or
continue when he signs it. So, when will that be? Well, the president asked Congress to
deliver this big, beautiful bill to his desk by July 4th. And so, that's when he's going to get it and that's when
he's going to sign it in a ceremony tomorrow afternoon. Short time ago, he told reporters he made no deals to win
over lawmakers. Nicole Kellian on Capitol Hill. Thank you. Now, more of the top stories from around the world in
tonight's evening news roundup. Seven people are missing two days after a fireworks warehouse in Yolo County,
California, exploded in flames. The risk of more explosions has slowed the search. The cause of the initial blast
is under investigation. The fire has burned nearly 80 acres. The police in
Chicago are asking for the public's help as they try to find whoever was behind a
driveby shooting last night. Four people were killed and 14 others wounded. Shots were fired from a fastmoving car at
people leaving an album release party in the River North neighborhood. The police suspect it was a targeted shooting. The
monthly jobs report today is better than expected. Moneywatch correspondent Kelly O'Grady breaks down the numbers.
The economy added 147,000 jobs in June. So, let's look at who was hiring. Half
of the jobs were created by state and local governments primarily in education. That's the green line here on
the bottom which is growing. At the same time, there's been a slowdown in jobs in the private sector. So that means
without the government hiring, this snapshot of the labor market would look less positive. Then there's the
unemployment rate which ticked down to 4.1%. But that's partly because more people stopped looking for work.
Overall, today's report is strong, but economists are asking if this growth is sustainable.
The Florida Attorney General's office says the first group of migrant detainees has arrived at a new detention
facility in the Everglades. And the Supreme Court has cleared the way for a group of migrants with criminal records
to be deported to South Sudan. The Gaza Health Ministry run by Hamas
reports nearly 100 Palestinians were killed over the past day by Israeli air
strikes and shootings. Nearly half were killed on their way to get food from an Americanbacked aid organization. Deborah
Pa in East Jerusalem has more about the risk Palestinians are taking to keep
from starving. This was the scene at a Gaza Humanitarian Foundation aid site filmed
last month by an American security contractor working there and given to
our partner, the BBC. Thousands of Palestinians herded into a long fenced
off corridor and forced to battle it out for food amid bullets and stun grenades.
The contractor explained there was machine gunfire from a watchtowwer and shots from a nearby security guard.
Then the unmistakable sound I think you hit one of American accents.
[Applause] [Music] The contractor spoke on condition his identity was concealed. When this guy
was shooting into this group, this man dropped to the ground and was motionless. GHF said the person heard
shouting in the video had been removed from the site, but did not give any other details. The contractor, however,
said he brought the incident to the attention of his superiors. And then the leadership said to me, "Well, you have
no way of knowing that person was was hit with a bullet. Maybe they tripped. Maybe they were tired and they passed
out. The US has approved a direct grant of $30 million for GHF, but the group
has not disclosed the rest of its funding. We asked Director Johnny Mur
earlier this week about reports of more than 600 people killed trying to access
aid at their sites. And yet every single day we wake up to, you know, in in the
west or our team is operating, you know, simultaneously in in the Middle East to this piece of disinformation that is
just without any scrutiny whatsoever while we're facing all the scrutiny in the world. But the contractors said they
were given explicit rules of engagement. Deb, aid organizations that know how to
distribute aid say that the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation is not doing it correctly. What are their specific
complaints? Well, John, JHF only has four aid sites. There used to be 400. And this forces
aid seekers into a narrow choke hold to collect food. They walk long distances,
often returning empty-handed. And other groups like World Food Program send registered recipients a text message to
say they will be distributing in their area. Critics also say GHF has weaponized food and it's used as a
bargaining chip essentially to force mass displacement as the sites are all towards the south of Gaza with none in
the north. John Deborah Pa reporting from East Jerusalem. Thank you. Still
ahead on the CBS Evening News, hot summer weather is driving the biggest wildfire California has seen this year
and we'll have these stories. I'm Charlie Dageda at the Pentagon. The army is in the field creating a new way
of fighting with drones. That's tonight's Eye on America.
I'm Nancy Chen, an in Asetique Island National Seashore where millions visit every year and there are no lifeguards
this summer. Why locals are blaming federal policy.
This wildfire in California started yesterday and has already grown to 55
square miles. The Madre Fire in St. Louis Abyspo County. Meteorologist John
Elliot of our New York flagship station tells us that hot, dry conditions and strong winds are feeding it. John, I got
to tell you, John, the weather is not going to help with the firefight. Now, California technically not under a red
flag fire warning. much of Nevada, parts of Arizona, Utah to the north, they are under that warning. And in west, it's
just hot and dry with those offshore winds. Where we don't need the rain, West Texas already 4 in. We're going to
see more storms. Houston up to Dallas. In the western lakes, it's all about the heat and humidity combining to make it
feel like 100 plus. In New England and parts of the Mid-Atlantic, we've got watches. We've got warnings. Look at
this new video from Bingmpington. These massive old growth trees knocked down by
hurricane force winds with these collapsing storms. A lot of hail with these severe storms as well. Sets it up
for a nice weekend, but very tricky tonight. Florida, more rain for you. And
the concern is development of a tropical system on the Atlantic side. A lot of
the water stays out to sea, but dangerous waves early next week. Stay safe and have a great fourth. John, you
too, John. John Elliot, thank you. Among the most popular destinations this holiday weekend are national parks. More
Americans than ever are visiting them, but there are fewer rangers, lifeguards, and other workers to help them. The
Trump administration has cut about a thousand jobs. And as Nancy Chen reports, critics say that could make
parks less safe. The shoreline at Maryland's Asetique
Island is a familiar place for surfer Zack Tindle. A former firefighter paramedic. Tindle often helped
beachgoers here, but now as the mayor of nearby Berlin, he says safety isn't
guaranteed. What are you most worried about? I don't want to see anybody drown. We had saves where we were able
to bring people out, and we had some where we weren't able to. Each year, millions visit Asetique Island National
Seashore, which is managed by the National Park Service. But this summer, families will also see this shuttered
lifeguard towers and signs warning no lifeguards are on duty. We asked the
park service about staffing, but the agency did not directly respond to our questions. Instead, saying lifeguard
shortages are a nationwide concern many communities are facing. According to a
new analysis by the National Parks Conservation Association, permanent staffing is down 24% systemwide since
President Trump took office and less than half of seasonal worker positions, including lifeguards, have been filled.
This was a policy put into place by Doge and the current Trump administration, um that led to a complete hiring freeze on
all hiring across the National Park Service. Ed Sterling is with the National Parks Conservation Association,
which did the analysis. The reason there are no lifeguards at Asetig is honestly
a symptom of the chaos and dysfunction that has been uh impacting this agency
since the beginning of this administration. A Trump administration official told us all fire, law
enforcement, and public facing park personnel are prioritized to remain in place. Back in Maryland though, Zach
Tindle is just hoping for a safe summer. Every day that we don't have a lifeguard
here on the beach is putting every one of these swimmers, every one of our local residents, everybody that comes to visit Astig Island in jeopardy. It could
get worse with next year's proposed budget, which calls for a cut of more than $1 billion to the National Park
Service, the largest in its history. Nancy Chen on the Maryland shore. Eye on
America is next with US forces training for drone warfare.
[Music] President Zalinski announced today that
Ukraine has signed a deal with the American company Swiftbeat to jointly produce drones for the war with Russia.
Just yesterday, President Trump put a pause on delivery of some weapons to Ukraine because US stockpiles are
dwindling. As drones become a key part of America's arsenal, we decided to give you another look at Charlie Dageda's
report on how US forces are training to use them in tonight's Eye on America.
[Music] Deep in the backwoods of Louisiana, an
experimental unit of 1001st Airborne Soldiers is setting out. Any strike
element, this is Chaos 46 with cuttingedge technology. Sergeant First Class Anthony Clark says
his unit is exploring a new way of fighting. How much of this are you doing on the fly? Almost all of it. But it's
good. That's why we're here. We're to create those tactics. We're to create those standard operating procedures so
that the next generation of soldiers understands from our mistakes and can be even more effective with the systems.
Those systems include both surveillance drones and attack drones, decoys and
jammers directed by laptops or a cell phone app. 616 go terminal.
Many of the innovations come directly from the revolution in drone warfare now taking place in Ukraine. Just last
month, Ukrainian operatives smuggled more than a hundred drones into Russia, launching them from containers and
destroying an estimated onethird of the Kremlin's long range bombing fleet. It
was a bold attack, offering lessons for soldiers in the 101st Airborne, transforming their own combat
operations. The command post, well hidden in the trees, is minuscule, a
fraction of the size Major General Brett Sylvia commanded 10 years ago. My
command post was 10 different tents, uh, 40 different vehicles. It was easy to
see and therefore easy to kill. The art of deception in this exercise against an
opposition force considered the enemy goes beyond face paint and camouflage.
It's running fiber optic cables to antennas hundreds of yards away from the command center. then spreading out
decoys, offtheshelf circuit boards made to look like laptops, cell phones. Just
the other night, the enemy was completely deceived by that and put an artillery barrage on just a bunch of
decoys that were out in a field and then this command post stayed safe and sound. I think you said it wasn't like hiding a
needle in a hay stack. It was hiding a needle in a stack of needles. They're
also experimenting with robotic vehicles controlled by Lieutenant Parker Mitchell. Is this the future? Yes, sir.
It absolutely is. And why? Why? Because there's no reason to trade blood for blood when we can trade blood for steel.
Putting that steel to work on future battlefields, specialist William Baitman says, will not be without its challenges
and rewards. Right now, we're in the middle of molding the future and and participating in history being made.
It's absolutely stunning. And not your grandfather's 101st? Nope. Definitely not. Now, a new generation is putting
innovation to the test on the battlefields of the future. For Eye on
America, I'm Charlie Dageda at Fort Johnson, Louisiana.
We'll be back with a semiquincentennial minute.
Tomorrow, the United States of America begins the semiquincentennial. Breaking down the Latin and the math,
quincentennial means 500th anniversary, which it is not. Semi is half. Half of
500 is 250, which it is. America's 250th year of independence starts on the 4th
of July, something to celebrate. But sadly, a Gallup poll finds only 58% of
adults are very or extremely proud to be Americans. A record low and down from
90% at the start of this century. It's been a quarter of a millennium since the
founders declared this land free and with great pride began making the country what it was. They left it to
future generations to use that freedom to make America what it will be.
Something that would make us and them proud. And that is the CBS Evening News
for tonight. From Maurice Dubois, I'm John Dickerson. The news continues on Evening News Plus streaming on CBS News
247. See you there soon.
[Music]
Welcome to CBS Evening News Plus. I'm John Dickerson. The Great American Getaway is underway with a record number
of people expected to travel over the Fourth of July holiday. Our senior transportation correspondent Chris Van
Cleave has the good news and the bad news for travelers this weekend. And in
depth tonight, Alise Preston explains why Americans purchasing fireworks this year are getting less bang for their
buck. Those stories and more right after our news headlines.
The House of Representatives approved President Trump's multi-trillion dollar tax cut and spending plan. The president
plans to sign the bill into law at a ceremony tomorrow evening. The bill makes permanent tax cuts from the first
Trump administration. It also allows workers to deduct up to $25,000 from
tips and overtime from their taxes and makes purchasing equipment for business more affordable. Cuts to Medicaid could
cause nearly 12 million Americans to lose their health insurance coverage. The Labor Department's monthly job
report came in better than expected. The economy added more than 147,000 jobs in
June, and the unemployment rate ticked down to 4.1%. But nearly half those
gains came from state and local government, while private sector hiring slowed to its weakest pace since last
fall. The US Supreme Court has agreed to review whether state laws can ban transgender athletes from competing in
women's and girls sports. It will review cases of athletes in West Virginia and
Idaho who won injunctions from lower courts allowing them to continue competing. The ruling could also affect
more than two dozen other states that have similar bans in place.
We begin tonight with the great holiday getaway. Tens of millions of Americans squeezing themselves into middle seats
of planes, trains, and automobiles. Automobiles hoping to outrun everyone else in the bad weather, too. All in
pursuit of sun, sand, and a respit from the cares of their daily labors.
Airlines are bracing for storms and full flights. While bomb threats in Canada and long lines at home are making it a
cranky start to the fourth. CBS's senior transportation correspondent Chris Van Cleave is starting us off tonight in
Burbank, California. With millions on the move for the Fourth of July holiday weekend, the nation's
airlines are hoping to gain some independence from summer storms hammering the east coast all week with
more delay causing thunderstorms in the forecast today. I've been seeing flights
getting cancelled throughout all over. So, I was actually fingers crossed I got here and I made it. Across Canada, the
morning started with flight delays after bomb threats were made to at least six major airports. You just kind of have to
put one foot in front of the other when you're traveling and it's not going to change my plans. And this was the scene
at LAX before 4 this morning. Long lines of flyers hoping to beat the weather and
start their holiday weekend early. Jam Reyes got here nearly 4 hours before her flight to Mexico. Why leave so early
this morning? because we just wanted to make sure we've been watching in the news that there's some delay in the airport, so we just rather be early,
wait here. The TSA expects to screen more than 18.5 million flyers around the 4th of July holiday. American Airlines
says Sunday will be its busiest day of the entire summer. July 4th is the peak of the peak, if you will, for summers.
Airline industry analyst Henry Hartvelt. For this July 4th, the big concerns I
have are the weather and air traffic control. Will the system hold up? So the weather, which is a constant, and this
year it's the FAA, right? And you know, if any one of those two things fail, the
system could go kaboo. AAA projects nearly 62 million Americans will hit the road around Independence Day. Among
them, CJ Jones, driving from Chicago to Indiana and finding on average gas prices about 35 cents a gallon cheaper
than a year ago. Uh just spending some time with family during the holidays.
AAA expects the busiest time on the roads coming home to be Sunday afternoon into
evening. Now flyers got some good news from the Department of Transportation. The fiber optic line aimed at fixing the
problems at that air traffic control facility that deals with Newark airport. It went online today. John, nice timing.
Chris Van Cleave from Burbank. Thank you. With time running out, House Republicans pushed through a massive
budget bill today, racing to meet their self-imposed July 4th deadline. And the legislation now awaits a presidential
signature. CBS's Nicole Kellian is on Capitol Hill. Nicole.
Well, John, this is really being framed as an historic moment, not only for the president, but also for congressional
Republicans who believe that the 2024 election gave them a mandate. And so,
they see this as one of their first opportunities to deliver on that in a substantive way. Now, the president and
the speaker insist that they did not make any deals to win over some of those
lastm minute holdouts who opposed moving forward with this package initially. In
the end, we just saw only two House Republicans vote against this bill. That was Thomas Massie of Kentucky who had
been a firm no and also has been facing a primary challenge threat from the president. He also told reporters today
that this bill wasn't as beautiful enough to him to support it. Meanwhile,
moderate Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania was also opposed because of the Senate changes to Medicaid, which he
said would hurt his district. Now, as a reminder, this bill extends President Trump's 2017 tax cuts to the tune of
$4.5 trillion in tax breaks for Americans. It will also boost border
security and immigration enforcement. and it makes some pretty big cuts as we've been reporting to Medicaid as well
as SNAP which includes food stamp programs. Uh this will also implement
work requirements for both of those programs. This bill of course now heading to the president's desk where he
will sign it in a July 4th ceremony. John Nicole, tell us about the Democrats. Um they're kind of out of
this picture, but Hakeem Jeff, the leader of the Democrats, um spoke on on the floor today. tell us about that and
whether that's a part of a strategy going forward. Yeah. Well, we saw the minority leader
break a record for one of the longest speeches on the House floor in modern history. In fact, breaking the record of
his predecessor, Kevin McCarthy, who not only served as minority leader, but also as speaker. Of course, uh this was a
tactic used by the leader called a magic minute, which is basically the House's version of a filibuster. But uh look,
Democrats have been using this strategy periodically, holding the floor when they can to message against legislation
and policies that they disagree with. We saw that with Cy Booker. We saw that obviously uh with leader Chuck Schumer
demanding that this Senate bill be read on the on the Senate floor over the weekend. So, this is a sign potentially
of more to come from Democrats as they say they plan to take their message out on the road. Nicole Killian on Capitol
Hill. Thanks so much, Nicole. The June jobs report beat expectations with more
than 140,000 new positions added last month and the unemployment rate declined to 4.1%.
But there is more to the numbers than just the headlines. CBS's Jolene Kent is here and physically here, which is very
nice to help us understand this. Um, so what do you see in the numbers? Look, this was an unexpected strong jobs
report, but when you dig into the nitty-gritty, where were the jobs created? It was local and state
government jobs that really upheld this jobs report. Private sector hiring was
actually lackluster here. So if you were to strip out, say those local high those
local government jobs, you actually would have ended up with a weak jobs report. And so overall, what we're
seeing is the private sector holding back here even though we had a strong headline number. That is a good thing to
see. What conclusion preliminary or at all can anyone draw about the tariff policy in this jobs report? Well, we've
been hearing as we report across the country that a lot of small, medium, and largesiz businesses are holding. They're
waiting and seeing and they're not hiring right now. And so, anecdotally, we see that pullback that was evidenced
in this jobs report, but we also don't see mass restructuring, mass layoffs,
and things like that yet. Right. Still an emerging picture. Yes, the 4.1% unemployment rate um it went down. So,
yay, right? Or what we always like good news, right? So, it ticks down just a touch to 4.1%. But what you need to
understand about that though is labor force participation rate. That's a nerdy way of saying some people who were
looking for a job stopped looking. And so that means they don't feel confident in the job market to continue. So, that
actually isn't a great number. and labor force participation was actually at its lowest since 2022. So that is certainly
a flag, maybe a pink flag, not red or white. We're watching it. Yeah. Excellent. Well, now we have things to
watch. Jolene Kent, good to see you and thank you. Thank you. Now, here are three things to know. Delmonte Foods has
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and is seeking a buyer. The company best known for its canneds,
fruit, fruits, and vegetables was founded in San Francisco 139 years ago. Its name growing out of a premium coffee
blend made for the elite hotel Deltonti. Delmani's sales have been affected by several factors, including grocery
inflation and consumer preferences shifting away from canned foods and preservatives. And in the archives of
the American Baptist Church in Massachusetts, a historian uncovered a 5- foot long handwritten scroll titled a
resolution to protest against slavery. It was dated in 1847. That's 14 years
before the Civil War. and it was signed by 116 New England ministers who vowed to seek justice for the oppressed. It
denounced slavery as an outrage upon the rights and happiness of our fellow men.
A moral stand about what some northerners preferred to think of at the time as a southern problem. And NASA
astronaut Nicole Ays posted a spectacular image from the space station of what's known as a sprite. That's a
brief blast of electricity that occurs high above thunderstorms in the upper atmosphere. Heirs explains that photos
like this help scientists better understand this rare phenomenon because groundbased observers rarely catch
sprites. The ISS offers an unobstructed view of the storm systems. Coming up on
CBS Evening News Plus, the cost of celebrating why tariffs could dull this year's fireworks.
[Music] With the Fourth of July comes sky-high
demand for fireworks, but this year, soaring tariffs could dull the show. In
tonight's In-Depth, CBS's Ely Preston introduces us to the family behind hundreds of pyrochnic displays and their
fight to keep the flares lighting up the sky.
It's crunch time for workers at this warehouse east of Los Angeles,
loading boxes of fireworks onto trucks for Fourth of July celebrations. It's a
time to celebrate, to reflect on the ideals of Liberty. Paul Soua is vice
president of Pyro Spectaculars. The family's been producing fireworks
displays for five generations. This Independence holiday alone, they will
illuminate the sky with red, white, and bang and 350 shows from coast to coast. When
do you start preparing? It's uh basically a year in advance. And so we will start ordering next year's
fireworks on July 5th. No rest for the weary. No rest for the wicked. This
year, pre-production felt like a roller coaster for Souza with the Trump administration's tariff plans, sparking
explosive trade wars with several countries, including China, which manufactures nearly all of the world's
fireworks. It was like watching a target move, lots of sleepless nights, and
really an inability to plan. At one point, tariffs on Chinese goods were more than one and a half times the value
of the products, forcing Souza's company to eat millions of dollars in added
costs. He says folks buying sparklers, firecrackers, and rockets at roadside
stands will also be impacted. That customer at the point of sale is going
to experience the tariff immediately um in their pocketbook. Consumer fireworks is a $2.2 billion industry. 29 states
allow the public to use all types. Other states are more restrictive. Does anyone
manufacture fireworks here in the United States? No, it's not a manufacturing
that's been done in the United States for decades and certainly not capable to
do so at the scale required to support the industry. So, you don't see that happening like next year? I don't see it
happening at all. Groups representing the industry have been pressuring President Trump to exempt US companies
from the tariffs. And as the nation inches closer to its 250th birthday next year, there are fears some shows won't
happen if the high fees remain. But for Souza, why I do this is it's the thrill
of the crowd, the um putting smiles on people's faces. He'll be back to celebrate the nation's past, present,
and future generations. Elise Preston, CBS News, Rialto, California.
Best-selling author Ron Chernau's list of works has revealed details of historical titans easily identified by
surnames, Grant, Washington Rockefeller. He even inspired a hit Broadway musical,
Hamilton. Chernow's new book focuses on another giant, Twain. We talked to him
about the book for tonight's interview. How much of an author of his own
personality was he? Which is to say that he crafted this public persona? Well, Mark Twain was was the um original
celebrity, you know. I mean, he really kind of anticipates the world of social
influencers uh uh today that um he had a mastery of media. It was really the
birth of mass media. And so we had teams of reporters who were always hungry for
fresh and funny and pertinent quotes. And Mark Twain was one of these people who had an opinion on virtually
everything under the sun. And it was always funny and and always pertinent. What I found was that he um was
unrivaled when it came to shaping his image in the media. So for instance uh
one day a few years before he died he suddenly appeared in a white suit in the middle of winter and the reporters asked
him what the white suit represented. He said well it's the uniform of the American Association of Purity and
Perfection of which I am the president and sole member. He said I'm the only cleanly clothed person in a dirty world.
And he would do things like that that made him this instantly recognizable personality so that Mark Twain would
walk into a theater or a restaurant and people would stand up and uh uh applaud.
He also um he used to give interviews from his bed. He would be wearing a a
night shirt or maybe an embroidered bathrobe. He'd be smoking a cigar or
five reporters would cluster around the bed and Mark Twain would uh dish to
them. And so he knew exactly how his image was going to be projected in the media. What role does the Mississippi
play in in the life of Mark Twain and who he became? Well, you know, Mark
Twain's a housekeeper, a woman named Katy Liry, said that Mr. Clemens loved
the river like it was a woman. and he talked about the Mississippi all the time in Hannibal, Missouri, which is tucked away all the way in the northeast
corner of Missouri then and now, a very tiny town uh in a um rural region, but
the Mississippi was his gateway to a larger world. And he said the most exciting event uh every day uh in the
town was someone would spot the puff of smoke that indicated you know that a steamboat was coming and the steamboat
brought the world to their doorstep. And so I think that the the river held out